So let's now use the fact that
the real jsDiv is not this,
that we've console.logged and saw, but
instead is an object with a method that
has access to the C++ DOM element,
and so with that in mind in line four.
In line four, here we go.
We are going to access jsDiv.
That's not very good, is it?
Let me get this right.
Let me get my wording right.
So here we go, what is post?
Ian, what is the value of post here?
>> The current value is the string
high and exclamation mark.
>> Beautiful, beautiful, perfect.
We are going to try to attach to, we hope,
the DOM element, the string high.
Well, here's already a tricky question.
jsDiv is our object that has
a property text content.
I kept calling it a method,
maybe you can think why.
Cuz if that were a regular old property,
Ian, can you help me with this?
Where would that high be assigned?
If I had jsDiv.text content equals post,
which you just said is string high,
where would that high be
stored on that jsDiv object?
>> If it was a regular old JavaScript
object then it would get stored
as under the key text
content in the object jsDiv.
>> Can we just give Ian
a round of applause for
a really sharp-
>> [APPLAUSE]
>> Really sharp communication,
Ian, that's really, really good.
Yeah, which is of zero use to us,
right, because now great,
now we've got high in JavaScript,
where do we want it to go, Ian?
>> We probably want it
to go out to the DOM.
>> Yeah, beautiful.
>> And by extension show up
in the UI in the browser.
>> Beautiful, wow, Ian, excellent,
excellent, exactly right.
And it does, because in practice,
text content is working to do this.
One, it goes and looks at the link.
In this case,
it's a link to which element, Ian?
>> It's a link to the jsDiv.
>> Yeah, so
jsDiv is our JavaScript label for it,
which has a link to our DOM Div element,
spot on.
And then,
we are going to take the value of
post which is high, and
we are going to set.
So a property that acts by running
code under the hood to go and
do something else,
even though it looks like a property,
you can call a getter setter property.
It is in this case going
to set the value or
the text of this DOM element to be set
text in C++ to be the string
high from JavaScript.
And now exactly as you said Ian,
high shows up on the page.
Beautiful, flipping heck.
We've now managed to display content,
one second, Paul,
we managed to display content that
would have taken us one line in HTML.
Honestly, actually, we didn't even do the,
yeah, it would have taken one word,
one letter.
Three letters, we could have just
written high inside of that div for
it to show up on the DOM.
Do we start to see why HTML is such
a magically intuitive language and
how JavaScript is so rough?
However, it's gonna give us
fine-grained editing control.
It's gonna give us fine-grained editing
control over what we can do to these
elements, and the ability for
us to change data in JavaScript and
then change what shows up on
that list of C++ elements.
Wouldn't it be wonderful if we could write
C++ directly there and do it rather than
have to access it through a bunch of
slightly quirky JavaScript [INAUDIBLE] and
created.
And I call this an access object that has
a hidden link to the DOM element in C++.
By the way, people, especially folk online
as well, you might be thinking my God,
do I need to know all this?
Well that's a separate question.
>> [LAUGH]
>> That's a more deep question.
But you might be thinking wow,
this is a heck of a lot just to
put some content on the page.
However, it does turn out that
once we have this model down,
this is the model until the end.
As I said, there are four parts to UI
hard parts, part one is the truths.
Part two, three, and four are moves to
make the truths more easy to work with.
Yes, it's my new quote.
It is demanding, however, once we have
it down, it becomes the standard.
Let's have thumbs on this,
I wanna start seeing clarifications.
Excellent, John's got one,
Justin is clear.
Paul's got one, fantastic,
Phil, Alexa, Wyatt, all clear.
Let's start with Paul,
you had yours first.
>> It's not a big deal but
you put the high in the wrong box there,
you put it in-
>> No, honestly, Paul, thank you.
Everybody is grateful for
you doing that, thank you,
because otherwise that
would have been let.
Can we do a round of applause for Paul?
[LAUGH] [APPLAUSE]
>> Yeah, yeah, thank you, Paul.
Honestly, for me, that makes me
appreciative you're following it so
closely, fantastic.
What else was I gonna say?
Yeah, why do we need to even know this?
Well, flipping it,
we're gonna see in a moment that the fact
that these are in two different places.
Our data is in one runtime, and
the structure that persists displaying
that data and directly mirrors
what's on the page is in an entirely
different runtime that we access,
by the way, on a case by case basis.
We're gonna quickly see there
is no way to have data, well,
I'm not gonna give it away, but wouldn't
it be nice if we could have changes of
data here flow directly through to here?
These are two different runtimes that
we're gonna have to manually make
the moves across to change.
Because you might be like,
well do I really need to know this?
Unfortunately, having your data in
a different environment to the structure
of your page where that data ends
up being actually displayed, and
when the user changes, the data is
gonna change here, but you've still
got data over here, that's gonna turn
out to be profoundly challenging.
It's gonna be why we impose such strict
rules on ourselves to make things at least
as predictable as we can make them.
But also, what was I gonna say?
Yeah, but also, my goodness, the web
browsers doesn't half make it hard for
us to realize this.
When you have the console logging, the
HTML that created the DOM element in C++,
when actually you're logging
the JavaScript accessor of that.
I mean, that couldn't be more
misrepresentative, right.
>> [LAUGH]
>> All right, John, you had one.
>> So
I had a question about the call stack.
So document.querySelector is being
pushed to the call stack or?
>> Good question.
Yeah, technically it is.
I think the reason I'm always hesitant to
put it on the call stack is it implies,
it's code in JavaScript being run, right?
The question, I guess, becomes where does
the JavaScript execution here end and
where does the C++ code begin?
Well these bits are going
off to access C++.
Don't forget, JavaScript is technically
running within a browser in C++.
So actually, you can think of that
handling when tasks go out to other parts
of the browser under the hood and
when it's actually just
JavaScript code running.
I don't ever put it on the call stack,
although it is on the call stack,
because I like to think of the stuff on
the call stack as being the code that we
have written and that we are taking
the threat of execution inside of.
And that we could actually change the code
inside the functions that are on here,
whereas we can't go and
change querySelector.
But yes, as a JavaScript function, even
though it's actually doing a bunch of work
outside, it technically will
go on the call stack, yeah.
Great question.
>> Do all script tags refer to the same
JavaScript runtime with shared
memory space and etc?
>> We'll see that in a moment.
Actually, this is the second one
where we're gonna come and see this,
once we start building out
our own version of the DOM.
So let's hold the ones around how
JavaScript runtime works across different,
these are ones which become interesting.
So when we think about hard parts,
it's always intellectually
fascinating to go deeper, right?
But I do always like, I don't really
know what this quote means, but
the turtles all the way down quote, which
is, you can always go a layer deeper.
The question becomes,
is it helping you understand
building what you're doing today.
We are not doing this for
the sake of the intellectual satisfaction,
although to be fair, we sort of are.
Only because, I want also you all to
be able to go to your interviews and
say to them,
you're gonna by the end of today,
even by the end of today,
maybe by tomorrow, be able to say,
I prefer to spin up my own custom
implementation of the virtual DOM.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Let me try that again.
>> I prefer to spin up my own custom
implementation of the virtual DOM.
And by the end of tomorrow,
did I miss part of it?
Okay, I know you can't do it yet, because
you don't prefer it yet but soon you will.
>> [LAUGH]
>> But soon you will, once you do,
you'll be able to say that.
What I'm getting at there is this stuff
is incredibly important to understand
the great UI frameworks, the reacts,
the felts, the views, the angulars.
I should have had this at the start,
sorry, people.
Under the hood, such that you can debug
them, such that you can work with them at
scale, such that you can even genuinely
spin up your own versions of them.
It's for that purpose.
However, it is also quite cool to
be able to go into interviews, and
speak to some of these things.
Because the senior engineers,
the VPs, whatever, interviewing you,
to be able to tell them
these sort of things,
they may have come to these over
years of kind of piecing it together.
But for you to be able to give them these
mental models, honestly, it's a cool edge.
Listen, I'm not saying you wanna
intimidate them, I'm trying to be polite,
I don't want to have on record.
>> [LAUGH]
>> I'm not saying you wanna scare them,
but I am saying that you want them to come
away saying, uh-oh, my job is on the line.
This person's knowledge is, I don't wanna,
see, that's not very nice is it, but
that's the goal.
So in terms of the question there
about JavaScript runtimes and/or
how between different web pages and
within a web page JavaScript is executing,
we'll see later on from a place of why,
how that works.
The reason I say that is each of these
pieces we want to introduce as ultimately
enabling us to do something, not for
the sake of just intellectual knowledge.